RFC: Simplify prop merging with slots (#18642)
microsoft/fluentui: rfcs/convergence/simplify-prop-merging.md

3. A logical conclusion of the two above steps which results completely removing `mergeProps` in favour of object spreading over deep merge.

The later sections will go into the details of what each step will do and the potential benefits.

## Background

`mergeProps` is a layer over quite a complicated deep merging functionality is built to handle object merges with React elements properties, this results in quite complicated typings. Recently efforts have been made to make the usage safer from a typescript point of view thanks to concerned engineers who give up some of their project cycles.

This proposal aims to tackle the following problems more fundamentally in the design of shorthands and `mergeProps` itself:

- `as` prop is broken when passed to JSX elements through shorthand slots
- No type safety declaring HTML attributes with `as`
- Unsafe generic typings for shorthand, that require complex helper types above the internal implementation to make it work
- Deep merges are costly
- className merges are not done with `useAx`, which handles scoped directional styles and dedupes atomic declarations

> - Functions are not really merged but simply replaced similar to native object spreading

Reviewer: ````suggestion
- Functions are not really merged but simply replaced similar to native object spreading

```tsx
const props = { button: { customHandleClick /* a custom handler */} };
const state = mergeProps(
  { button: { handleClick /* a require handler by our component */ } },
   resolveShorthandProps(props),
);
// Results in => { button: { customHandleClick /* 💣 handlers are not merged */ } }
```

````

Reviewer: It might be unclear what it is covered there, as we discussed this case in offline I think that it will be great to add a snippet that explains the problem. WDYT?

Ideally conformance tests would be required to validate defaultProps always goes through `resolveShorthandProps`.

In the case where a component is extended by adding slots, it's pretty hard to validate both in terms of functionality and type safety.

### Merging functions and properties with primitives

Functions or primitives used in `mergeProps` will simply replace the value in the order of application in. This is extremely similar to native object spreading but without a deep merge functionality.

Prop objects tend to be relatively flat, and in cases where objects/arrays are used that need to be deep merged on each render we should examine those cases and make exceptions.

## Detailed Design or Proposal

### Declare `as` and the rendered `component` separately

```tsx
const state = {
  fooSlot: { type: "submit" },
  barSlot: { as: "button" },
  components: {
    fooSlot: "button",
    barSlot: Loader, // JSX element
  },
};

// let's use our `Component`
<Component fooSlot={{ as: 'div' }} barSlot={{as: "div"}} />

// result
<Component>
  <div type="submit">button</div>

>   <Loader as="div"} />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <Loader as="div" />
```

</Component>
```

The `as` prop is now a prop of the component being rendered in the slot and no longer defines what is rendered in the slot.

### Do not support `as` prop for slots that render native DOM elements

In the previous section, it should be noted that `fooSlot` does not use the `as` prop since it is an element that renders a native HTML element. We propose to enforce this.

Enforcing this requirement will give type safety to our native HTML slots, and make sure consumers don't unknowingly dangerously spread DOM attributes.

It is still possible to render different DOM elements, but this now has to be done explicitly without any type safety. It's also not easy to provide type safety easily in this case currently in Typescript.

> ```tsx
> // still typed to button props
> // not recommended ❌
> // `components` should not even by exposed as a prop
> <Component components={{ fooSlot: 'div' }} foo={{}} />;

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```tsx
// ❌ Not a recommended solution
// `components` can be exposed as a prop, but this breaks type safety
<Component components={{ fooSlot: 'div' }} fooSlot={{ tabIndex: 0 }} />;
```
````

Reviewer: I think that it will be better to split this block into multiple to clarify what will be implemented 🙄

> // Can be done by creating component state variants
> const state = useComponent();
> state.components.fooSlot = 'div';
> 
> // We have similar utilities
> // Safe attributes for the native slot
> // Can be done but still not ideal
> state.fooSlot = filterNativeDivProps(state.fooSlot);

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```tsx
// ✅ Recommended way
// Can be done by creating component state variants
const state = useComponent();
state.components.fooSlot = 'div';

// We have similar utilities for safe attributes for the native slot
// Can be done but still not ideal
state.fooSlot = filterNativeDivProps(state.fooSlot);
```
````

> // Recommended way, let the consumer control everything 🚀
> // We return what would originally be rendered in the children render function
> <Component
>   fooSlot={{
>     children: (Component, props) => {
>       /** Can be a rocket 🚀 or a footgun 🔫 */
>     },
>   }}
> />;
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```tsx
// ✅ Recommended way, let the consumer control everything 🚀
// We return what would originally be rendered in the children render function
<Component
  fooSlot={{
    children: (Component /* a real element type, for example "div" */, props /* a real type for props */) => {
      /** Can be a rocket 🚀 or a footgun 🔫 */
    },
  }}
/>;
```
````

    loader: { as: Loader, role: 'presentation' },
  },
  defaultProps,
  resolveShorthandProps(props, buttonShorthandProps),
);
```

#### Proposed usage

```tsx
const state: FooState = {
  as: "button",

  components: {
    icon: "span",
    content: "span",
    loader: Loader,
  },

  // user props
  ...props,

  ref: resolvedRef,
  content: resolveShorthand(
    props.content,
    { children: props.children } /* defaultProps for a slot */
  ),
  icon: resolveShorthand(props.icon),
  loader: resolveShorthand(
    props.loader,
    { role: "presentation" } /* defaultProps for a slot */
  ),
};

export interface FooProps extends ComponentProps, React.ButtonHTMLAttributes<HTMLButtonElement> {
  icon?: ShorthandProps<React.HTMLAttributes<HTMLSpanElement>;
  content?: ShorthandProps<React.HTMLAttributes<HTMLSpanElement>;
  Loader?: ShorthandProps<LoaderProps>;
};

export interface FooState extends FooProps, React.ButtonHTMLAttributes<HTMLButtonElement> {
  icon: ObjectShorthandProps<React.HTMLAttributes<HTMLSpanElement>;
  content: ObjectShorthandProps<React.HTMLAttributes<HTMLSpanElement>;
  Loader: ObjectShorthandProps<LoaderProps>;
};
```

> 🎉 typings there are 100% clear since they directly map to types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typings there are 100% clear since they directly map to types 🎉
```

Now when either internally or externally we want to extend/add slots:

```ts
const state = useComponentState();
state.components.extraSlot = 'div';
state.extraSlot = resolveShorthand({
  /** Shorthand props */
});

state.components.icon = 'button';
state.icon = filterNativeButtonProps(state.icon);
```

This results in use of standard object spread and explicit resolution of slots in state rather than a deep merging all user and default props.

Without `defaultProps` there is now only one way to extend component state - by mutating it.

Mutating state has **always** been possible, and can only be stopped if we decide to introduce true immutability.

> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion
##### Basic implementation of `resolveShorthand`

```tsx
function resolveShorthand<T extends Record<string, any>>(
  value: ShorthandProps<T>,
  defaultProps?: T,
): ObjectShorthandProps<T> {
  let resolvedShorthand: ObjectShorthandProps<T> = {} as T;

  if (typeof value === 'string' || typeof value === 'number' || React.isValidElement(value)) {
    resolvedShorthand = { children: value } as ObjectShorthandProps<T>;
  }

  if (typeof value === 'object') {
    resolvedShorthand = value as ObjectShorthandProps<T>;
  }

  return { ...(defaultProps as ObjectShorthandProps<T>), ...resolvedShorthand };
}
```
````

Reviewer: I think it could be useful to add implementation that we discussed in offline to clarify why it's simpler that `mergeProps()`.

   resolveShorthandProps(props),
);
// Results in => { button: { customHandleClick /* 💣 handlers are not merged */ } }
```

- When merging different types, simply replaces most recent usage. Although not a problem with slots because of `resolveShorthandProps`

## Problem statement

### Broken `as` prop

Let's take a simple example with a `Loader` component slot inside a `Button` component.

```tsx
// `Button` state hook
export const useButton = () => {
  const state = mergeProps({
    // ...
    // Loader component used as shorthand slot
    loader: { as: Loader },
  });
};

// `Button` render function
export function renderButton(state) {
  const { slots, slotProps } = getSlots(state);
  return (
    <button>
      {/* ... */}
      {/* 👇 "slots.loader" will render Loader component */}
      <slots.loader {...slotProps.loader} />
    </button>
  );
}
```

```tsx
// During usage, want to use `Loader` as `div`
<Button loader={{ as: 'div' }} />
```

The result is rather worrying:

```tsx
// Expected result
<Button>
  <Loader as="div" />
</Button>

// Result
<Button>
  {/* 👇 this is just a plain div, Loader is not rendered 🤨 */}
  <div />
</Button>
```

> In the above example `as` is intended to represent the `Loader` prop, not to defined the component to be rendered. This is a result of special handling of the `as` prop which will always be omitted from the slot props and used as the component to be rendered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the above example `as` is intended to represent the `Loader` prop, not to define the component to be rendered. This is a result of special handling of the `as` prop which will always be omitted from the slot props and used as the component to be rendered.
```

### Complex typings and unsafe internal implementation

> [microsoft/fluentui#17508](https://github.com/microsoft/fluentui/pull/17508/files) includes type fixes for `mergeProps` which provides extra type safety for to validate shorthand slots.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[microsoft/fluentui#17508](https://github.com/microsoft/fluentui/pull/17508/files) includes type fixes for `mergeProps` which provides extra type safety to validate shorthand slots.
```

> However, the result still leads to complicated component state types to benefit from the stricter typing through generics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, the result still leads to complicated component state types benefiting from the stricter typing through generics.
```

### Native attribute filtering needs to happen by default

For slots that render native elements, it's difficult to provide type safety in order to avoid unsafe DOM attribute spreads as shown in the below example:

```tsx
// ComponentState
const state = {
  buttonSlot: { as: 'button', type: 'submit' },
};

function App() {
  // Typescript cannot warn that this is potentially evil
  return <Component buttonSlot={{ as: 'div' }} />;
}
```

```html
<!-- Thankfully still works, but props must be filtered on every render -->
<div></div>
```

> The above example still works thanks to the the native attribute filtering that is done as a pat of `getSlots`. However, these filters always need to be run when resolving shorthand slots. During each render, every prop of a component is iterated and re-filtered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above example still works thanks to the the native attribute filtering that is done as part of `getSlots`. However, these filters always need to be run when resolving shorthand slots. During each render, every prop of a component is iterated and re-filtered.
```

> The current filtering also needs to iterate all the allowed props during as a nested loop, although this could be optimized quite easily.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The current filtering also needs to iterate all the allowed props during a nested loop, although this could be optimized quite easily.
```
Is the intention here to reflect that filtering is done in a nested loop?

> While the existence of these helpers should exist (as explained in the below proposals), it seems unnecessary that it always needs to happen on every render.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the existence of these helpers is necessary (as explained in the below proposals), it seems unnecessary that it needs to happen on every render.
```

One common use case as seen in `Menu`, `Avatar` and `Badge` is to extend a base component by adding or modifying a slot. There are two ways where it is possible to do this currently:

```tsx
// Extend by modifying existing slots
// call resolveShorthandprops on defaultProps
const state = mergeProps(
  {
    as: 'span',
    label: { as: 'span' },
    getInitials: defaultGetInitials,
    ref,
  },
  defaultProps && resolveShorthandProps(defaultProps, avatarShorthandProps),
  resolveShorthandProps(props, avatarShorthandProps),
);
```

```tsx
// Extend by adding a slot
// Mutate state in extended component and call mergeProps again
const baseState = useBaseComponent(props, ref);

// React elements cannot be extended and will break `resolveShorthandProps`
// set to undefined since it will be resolved again anyway
(baseState as unknown) as ExtendedComponentProps).slot = undefined;
const state = mergeProps(baseState, defaultProps, resolveShorthandProps(props, extendedComponentShorthandProps));
```

Both of the examples above are quite opinionated and require knowledge of the internals of `mergeProps` and `resolveShorthands` to understand without guidance.

> Ideally conformance tests would be required to validate defaultProps always goes through `resolveShorthandProps`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ideally, conformance tests would be required to validate `defaultProps` always goes through `resolveShorthandProps`.
```

In the case where a component is extended by adding slots, it's pretty hard to validate both in terms of functionality and type safety.

### Merging functions and properties with primitives

> Functions or primitives used in `mergeProps` will simply replace the value in the order of application in. This is extremely similar to native object spreading but without a deep merge functionality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Functions or primitives used in `mergeProps` will simply replace the value in the order that they were defined. This is extremely similar to native object spreading but without a deep merge functionality.
```

  content: resolveShorthand(
    props.content,
    { children: props.children } /* defaultProps for a slot */
  ),
  icon: resolveShorthand(props.icon),
  loader: resolveShorthand(
    props.loader,
    { role: "presentation" } /* defaultProps for a slot */
  ),
};

export interface FooProps extends ComponentProps, React.ButtonHTMLAttributes<HTMLButtonElement> {
  icon?: ShorthandProps<React.HTMLAttributes<HTMLSpanElement>;
  content?: ShorthandProps<React.HTMLAttributes<HTMLSpanElement>;
  Loader?: ShorthandProps<LoaderProps>;
};

export interface FooState extends FooProps, React.ButtonHTMLAttributes<HTMLButtonElement> {
  icon: ObjectShorthandProps<React.HTMLAttributes<HTMLSpanElement>;
  content: ObjectShorthandProps<React.HTMLAttributes<HTMLSpanElement>;
  Loader: ObjectShorthandProps<LoaderProps>;
};
```

Typings there are 100% clear since they directly map to types 🎉

Now when either internally or externally we want to extend/add slots:

```ts
const state = useComponentState();
state.components.extraSlot = 'div';
state.extraSlot = resolveShorthand({
  /** Shorthand props */
});

state.components.icon = 'button';
state.icon = filterNativeButtonProps(state.icon);
```

> This results in use of standard object spread and explicit resolution of slots in state rather than a deep merging all user and default props.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This results in the use of standard object spread and explicit resolution of slots in state, rather than deep merging all user and default props.
```

Without `defaultProps` there is now only one way to extend component state - by mutating it.

> Mutating state has **always** been possible, and can only be stopped if we decide to introduce true immutability.
> ##### Basic implementation of `resolveShorthand`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Mutating state has **always** been possible, and can only be stopped if we decide to introduce true immutability.

##### Basic implementation of `resolveShorthand`
```

2. Stricter typing for shorthand slots that render native HTML tags with the goal of improving type safety internally and for consumers.
3. A logical conclusion of the two above steps which results in completely removing `mergeProps` in favour of object spreading over deep merge.

The later sections will go into the details of what each step will do and the potential benefits.

## Background

`mergeProps` is a layer over which quite a complicated deep merging functionality is built to handle object merges with React elements properties, this results in quite complicated typings. Recently, efforts have been made to make the usage safer from a typescript point of view thanks to concerned engineers who give up some of their project cycles.

This proposal aims to tackle the following problems more fundamentally in the design of shorthands and `mergeProps` itself:

- `as` prop is broken when passed to JSX elements through shorthand slots
- No type safety declaring HTML attributes with `as`
- Unsafe generic typings for shorthand, that require complex helper types above the internal implementation to make it work

> - Deep merges are costly

Author: By Flamegraph on `Button` component on last test, there was an improvement by 5% on performance of the hook to create button internal state. The estimation is to increse even more the disparity in components with more properties to be analyzed in the merging mechanism. We'd need to first of all migrate components to have better metrics

    </button>
  );
}
```

```tsx
// During usage, want to use `Loader` as `div`
<Button loader={{ as: 'div' }} />
```

The result is rather worrying:

```tsx
// Expected result
<Button>
  <Loader as="div" />
</Button>

// Result
<Button>
  {/* 👇 this is just a plain div, Loader is not rendered 🤨 */}
  <div />
</Button>
```

In the above example `as` is intended to represent the `Loader` prop, not to define the component to be rendered. This is a result of special handling of the `as` prop which will always be omitted from the slot props and used as the component to be rendered.

### Complex typings and unsafe internal implementation

[microsoft/fluentui#17508](https://github.com/microsoft/fluentui/pull/17508/files) includes type fixes for `mergeProps` which provides extra type safety to validate shorthand slots.

However, the result still leads to complicated component state types benefiting from the stricter typing through generics.

### Native attribute filtering needs to happen by default

For slots that render native elements, it's difficult to provide type safety in order to avoid unsafe DOM attribute spreads as shown in the below example:

```tsx
// ComponentState

> const state = {

Reviewer 4: I'd consider to make this an interface. it might be confusing to readers why is this an actual const.

```
interface ComponentState {
// ...
}
```

  buttonSlot: { as: 'button', type: 'submit' },

> };

Reviewer 4: this probably happens because TS  widens object definitions. `as const` will create proper type which will preserve all string literals thus solving this issue. 

Can we update this problem statement ?

function App() {

>   // Typescript cannot warn that this is potentially evil

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  // 🚨 No TS Error 
```

  return <Component buttonSlot={{ as: 'div' }} />;
}
```

```html

> <!-- Thankfully still works, but props must be filtered on every render -->

Reviewer 4: what still works? missing context.

can we use similar approach that I mentioned earlier?

```
Given definitions:

--- code ---

Will produce:

--- code ---
```

<div></div>
```

The above example still works thanks to the the native attribute filtering that is done as part of `getSlots`. However, these filters always need to be run when resolving shorthand slots. During each render, every prop of a component is iterated and re-filtered.

The current filtering also needs to iterate all the allowed props during a nested loop, although this could be optimized quite easily.

While the existence of these helpers is necessary (as explained in the below proposals), it seems unnecessary that it needs to happen on every render.

### Extending a component by adding/modifying slots

> One common use case as seen in `Menu`, `Avatar` and `Badge` is to extend a base component by adding or modifying a slot. There are two ways where it is possible to do this currently:

Reviewer 4: can we add links to those usages within source ?

```tsx
// Extend by modifying existing slots
// call resolveShorthandprops on defaultProps
const state = mergeProps(
  {
    as: 'span',
    label: { as: 'span' },
    getInitials: defaultGetInitials,
    ref,
  },
  defaultProps && resolveShorthandProps(defaultProps, avatarShorthandProps),
  resolveShorthandProps(props, avatarShorthandProps),
);
```

```tsx
// Extend by adding a slot
// Mutate state in extended component and call mergeProps again
const baseState = useBaseComponent(props, ref);

// React elements cannot be extended and will break `resolveShorthandProps`
// set to undefined since it will be resolved again anyway
(baseState as unknown) as ExtendedComponentProps).slot = undefined;

> const state = mergeProps(baseState, defaultProps, resolveShorthandProps(props, extendedComponentShorthandProps));

Reviewer 4: where is `extendedComponentShorthandProps` coming from. I'm having difficulties to understand what is going on in this example

```

Both of the examples above are quite opinionated and require knowledge of the internals of `mergeProps` and `resolveShorthands` to understand without guidance.

Ideally, conformance tests would be required to validate `defaultProps` always goes through `resolveShorthandProps`.

In the case where a component is extended by adding slots, it's pretty hard to validate both in terms of functionality and type safety.

> ### Merging functions and properties with primitives

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Merging functions and primitive values
```

> Functions or primitives used in `mergeProps` will simply replace the value in the order that they were defined. This is extremely similar to native object spreading but without a deep merge functionality.

Reviewer 4: `This is extremely similar to native object spreading`

you meant `native object merging ` no ?

Reviewer 5: Spreading doesn't do a deep merge either (as the second sentence is currently written, it implies that spread DOES deep merge)

> Prop objects tend to be relatively flat, and in cases where objects/arrays are used that need to be deep merged on each render we should examine those cases and make exceptions.

Reviewer 4: can we move the example that is provided at the beginning of the RFC here, so we have unified format and examples provided within chapters ?

## Detailed Design or Proposal

> ### Declare `as` and the rendered `component` separately

Reviewer 4: 👍 looks good

```tsx
const state = {
  fooSlot: { type: "submit" },
  barSlot: { as: "button" },
  components: {
    fooSlot: "button",
    barSlot: Loader, // JSX element
  },
};

// let's use our `Component`
<Component fooSlot={{ as: 'div' }} barSlot={{as: "div"}} />

// result
<Component>
  <div type="submit">button</div>
  <Loader as="div" />
</Component>
```

The `as` prop is now a prop of the component being rendered in the slot and no longer defines what is rendered in the slot.

### Do not support `as` prop for slots that render native DOM elements

In the previous section, it should be noted that `fooSlot` does not use the `as` prop since it is an element that renders a native HTML element. We propose to enforce this.

Enforcing this requirement will give type safety to our native HTML slots, and make sure consumers don't unknowingly dangerously spread DOM attributes.

> It is still possible to render different DOM elements, but this now has to be done explicitly without any type safety. It's also not easy to provide type safety easily in this case currently in Typescript.

Reviewer 4: can we reword this sentence ? IMO its hard to read

```tsx
// ❌ Not a recommended solution
// `components` can be exposed as a prop, but this breaks type safety
<Component components={{ fooSlot: 'div' }} fooSlot={{ tabIndex: 0 }} />;
```

```tsx
// ✅ Recommended way
// Can be done by creating component state variants
const state = useComponent();
state.components.fooSlot = 'div';

// We have similar utilities for safe attributes for the native slot

> // Can be done but still not ideal

Reviewer 4: if not ideal why do we have it as recommended way ?

state.fooSlot = filterNativeDivProps(state.fooSlot);
```

```tsx

> // ✅ Recommended way, let the consumer control everything 🚀

Reviewer 4: so which one is "THE WAY TO GO FOR" ? 1st or this recommendation ?

// We return what would originally be rendered in the children render function
<Component

>   fooSlot={{

Reviewer 4: this might inflict serious performance hits as this is gonna be re-rendered on every tick no matter what. are we aware of this/are we ok with this?

>     children: (Component /* a real element type, for example "div" */, props /* a real type for props */) => {

Reviewer 4: based on previous statements, `Component` could be only a valid html tag, is that correct ?  

If yes can we make the example more explicit?

```
 children: (
   /** 
    * @type 'div' | 'span'  - a real element type, for example "div
    */ 
  Component, 
   /** 
    * @type Record<string,unknown>  - a real type for props
    */ 
  props 
  ) => {
```

>       /** Can be a rocket 🚀 or a footgun 🔫 */

Reviewer 4: can we provide real example instead of this funny comment?

    },
  }}
/>;
```

> ### Retire mergeProps 🙊

Reviewer 4: I'd say this and resolveShorthand chapter should be part of different RFC. this contains already too much information/context. can we dissect it ?

Since internally even the Fluent team is mutating state, there is no clear reason why we should prevent consumers from doing so with `defaultProps`. In fact even if consumers do use `defaultProps` there is still nothing that **stops** them from mutating state. We show in the following example, two ways of doing the exact same thing. Both options are currently equally possible and valid.

```tsx
const state = mergeProps(
  {
    foo: {},
  },
  defaultProps,
  resolveShorthandProps(props, buttonShorthandProps),
);

// Option 1 - defaultProps
useComponentState(props, { foo: { bar: 'bar' } });

// Option 2 - mutate state
const state = useComponentState(props);
state.foo.bar = 'bar';
```

> With this statement in mind, we can propose solution with `mergeProps`. Let's also simplify shorthand resolution to resolve shorthands for each slot separately. Let's also apply the previous solutions to see the final before/after.

Reviewer 4: `With this statement in mind` 

with what statement ? the wording contains quite a lot sentences so it would be nice to narrow down what are we aiming at

Now when either internally or externally we want to extend/add slots:

```ts
const state = useComponentState();
state.components.extraSlot = 'div';
state.extraSlot = resolveShorthand({
  /** Shorthand props */
});

state.components.icon = 'button';
state.icon = filterNativeButtonProps(state.icon);
```

This results in the use of standard object spread and explicit resolution of slots in state, rather than deep merging all user and default props.

Without `defaultProps` there is now only one way to extend component state - by mutating it.

Mutating state has **always** been possible, and can only be stopped if we decide to introduce true immutability.

##### Basic implementation of `resolveShorthand`

```tsx
function resolveShorthand<T extends Record<string, any>>(
  value: ShorthandProps<T>,
  defaultProps?: T,
): ObjectShorthandProps<T> {
  let resolvedShorthand: ObjectShorthandProps<T> = {} as T;

  if (typeof value === 'string' || typeof value === 'number' || React.isValidElement(value)) {
    resolvedShorthand = { children: value } as ObjectShorthandProps<T>;
  }

  if (typeof value === 'object') {
    resolvedShorthand = value as ObjectShorthandProps<T>;
  }

>   return { ...(defaultProps as ObjectShorthandProps<T>), ...resolvedShorthand };

Reviewer 4: so much casting makes me feel  uneasy. can we note that this is a `contrived/simplified` implementation example
